Brace yourself, we are about to talk in detail about telephone systems.
I am at the Museum of Communications in Seattle to answer a question:
In old Hollywood movies, when someone phones and hangs up,
Why does a dial tone sound?
[dial tone]
"You can put your beautiful plan into your beautiful ass" [dial tone]
'Supervision' is the word that describes how a telephone switch
knows whether the calling and answering parties have hung up.
When you end a call and hang up,
the switch receives this on-hook signal,
and the connection that was in use at that time
breaks and goes back to its standard state.
So you end up with silence.
The reason that a sound engineer would use a dial tone
instead of nothing is logical, right?
It is to make clear that the other side has hung up.
That is certainly what many people claim online.
Except that they could do that with the help of one short sound effect.
And sometimes, that happens.
"Never call me again."
[rattling click]
"Wow!
I...
I am guessing that you are at home. "
"Good luck."
[rattling click]
It appears that there is another reason.
In the days of celluloid film
Southern California was one of the few places in America
with independent telephone companies,
they were not part of the big Bell monopoly that held the rest of the country.
Behind us is a step-by-step system
and it is a family member of the telephony systems
which was most commonly used in Southern California.
The Bell system did not really have a monopoly there.
If I choose a number, the various components connect, step by step,
me through the system from start to finish.
And that's where it got the name step-by-step.
When I have finished choosing, connect the conversation ...
[ringtone]
... and it can be answered.
The step system has no insight into the called party.
And that means that the called party can hang up and pick up
as often as they want, and the connection is not broken.
But if the caller hangs up ...
[dial tone]
... the called party immediately receives a dial tone,
because the system does not know if I was hanged
or that I just picked up the phone.
So in Hollywood, where all films were written and filmed,
their experience on the phone was different
with those of the rest of America and the world.
What, let's face it, is a bit like many other things in Hollywood.
The conclusion is:
the people who make the films really got a dial tone when they were hung up,
at least sometimes, so they also do that in their films.
Or they chose the option that worked best for the scene.
Whether it still happens when someone uses a mobile phone?
That's just lazy.
Thank you to the whole team in Seattle's wonderful Museum for Communication!
You can view their YouTube channel here
or scroll to the description for a link to the Museum and to see the opening times
and a list of all the incredible equipment they have here.